# Automatic profiling with NVTX and NVIDIA Nsight Systems

Similarly to benchmarking, profiling is also automated through [`profile.sh`](profile.sh). It is currently designed to do profiling on NVIDIA GPUs only. The main kernels of the solver, generated by [KernelAbstractions.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGPU/KernelAbstractions.jl), are traced using [NVTX.jl](https://github.com/JuliaGPU/NVTX.jl) ranges. Traces are introduced in the [`profiling`](https://github.com/WaterLily-jl/WaterLily.jl/tree/profiling) branch of WaterLily.

The NVIDIA Nsight Systems analysis tool is used to track the NVTX traces. When passing the argument `--nsight="nsys"` to the `profile.sh` script, it launches the profiling as: `nsys profile --sample=none --trace=nvtx,cuda --output=$DATA_DIR/$case/$case.nsys-rep --export=sqlite --force-overwrite=true julia profile.jl $case_arguments`. The post-processing tool uses the `nsys stats -r nvtx_gpu_proj_sum` command on the `nsys` data to obtain the final results. More options are available through the `nsys` API, and the Nsight Systems GUI.

The `profile.sh` script works with the same arguments as the `benchmark.sh` script, see the main benchmark [README.md](README.md) for a detailed explanation. An additional argument to postprocess the `nsys` results can be used here: `--run` (or `-r`). `--run=0` assumes that profiling data is already available in `--data_dir`, and it only performs post-processing. `--run=1` runs the actual profiling tests, and `--run=2` runs the tests and then performs the data post-processing.

# Automatic profiling with NVIDIA Nsight Compute
The NVIDIA Nsight Compute (`ncu`) can also be used to perform kernel profiling. This is automated within `profile.sh` when passing the argument `--nsight="ncu"` (which can be added in addition to the `nsys` profiling with `--nsight="nsys ncu"`). For this option, the name of the kernel needs to be specified through the argument `--kernels`, such as `--kernels="395 451"`. Results from Nsight compute can be processed with the Nsight Compute GUI.

